Private sector intelligence analysts have made public for the first
time an apparent missile base in North Korea. A report to be published
next week by Jane's Defense Weekly is expected to unveil satellite
images of the North Korean facility near Podong-ni. Analysts say it
appears designed to accommodate test launches of long-range missiles. 

North Korea has poured a large amount of its economic output into
missile development for decades. It has about 800 missiles capable of
hitting South Korea and Japan, and test-fired a missile directly over
Japanese territory in 1998. North Korea test-fired a long-range
missile in 2006, a few months before it conducted its first test
explosion of a nuclear weapon. 

David Asher is a former coordinator of North Korea policy at the
U.S. State Department. During a visit to Seoul this week, he said
there are signs North Korea may be contemplating more missile tests. 

"Last week there was a statement by the KCNA, the [North] Korean news
agency ... it stated that North Korea has the right to test a
satellite. Well, this is exactly what they did before they tested the
Taepodong a few years ago. And I would be very concerned, personally,
just based on that, that they are going to do this again," said
Asher. 

South Korean Defense Minister Lee Sang-hee was quoted in local media
as saying he is aware of the missile base, and believes it is 80
percent complete. Defense Minister Lee was quoted as saying there have
been no unusual moves by the North's military, amid the possibly
declining health of North Korean leader Kim Jong Il. South Korea is
not taking any immediate steps to raise its level of defense alert. 

South Korea's intelligence agency revealed this week its belief the
North's leader is recovering from a cerebral hemorrhage, or stroke, he
suffered last month. North Korean officials reject the reports as a
worthless conspiracy. Nonetheless, Kim Jong Il has not been seen in
public since August 14. 

Kim Jong Il has absolute personal control of North Korea's secretive
government. He has never publicly named a successor. Leaders view any
compromise of his health as potentially destabilizing to the North
Korean system - and even to peace on the Korean peninsula. 

Brian Myers specializes in North Korea's propaganda and official
communications at South Korea's Dongseo University. He says North
Korea's domestic media is absolutely silent about international
reports on their leader's health. 

"What we can expect are editorials that condemn the rest of the world
for making baseless rumors, but I do not think the North Korean press
will explain to the people what those rumors are," he said. 

He says health problems may put a dent in the North's efforts to
portray Kim Jong Il as an all-powerful leader. 

"It does compromise his image because North Korean propaganda has
always praised Kim Jong Il for his sturdy constitution, and compared
it favorably to the poor health of other leaders," he said. 

He says average North Koreans are probably aware of their leader's
health situation, via broadcast and cell phone technology, as well as
robust business contact with China. 
