Scientists at the European Organization for Nuclear Research, better
known by its French acronym, CERN, are planning to send a beam of
particles racing around the 27-kilometer ring of the Large Hadron
Collider for the first time. 

The LHC, as it's known, is the world's most powerful particle
accelerator. CERN physicist Tejinder Virdee says it's designed to
explore some of the most fundamental questions in physics. 

"At the end of this, it is possible that our view of nature, of how
the nature works at the fundamental level, would be altered in the
same way, for example, that Einstein had altered our view of space and
time about 100 years ago," he said. "So the scientific results could
be extremely important." 

The Large Hadron Collider is housed in a circular tunnel, buried under
the French-Swiss border just outside Geneva. 

Beams of subatomic protons and other particles will zip around the
ring, accelerated up to nearly the speed of light by some 1,800
superconducting magnet systems. 

Protons will reach an energy level of 7 trillion electron volts, seven
times more powerful than in any existing accelerator. The project has
cost an estimated $5.8 billion. 

When the LHC goes into full operation, scientists will aim beams of
particles directly at each other. When particles collide - up to 600
million times a second - special sensors will detect and record the
collisions, and a network of computers will analyze the vast amount of
data generated. 

It's designed in part to mimic conditions present at the beginning of
the universe, the Big Bang, almost 15 billion years ago. 

Researchers will also be looking for a subatomic particle known as the
Higgs Boson. The Standard Model of particle physics predicts that it
exists, but it has never been seen. CERN physicist Mike Seymour says
the elusive Higgs Boson has a nickname that conveys its importance. 

"People call it 'God's particle' because it really has a very
important central role in our whole theory of what everything is made
of, of matter," Seymour explained. "Because without the Higgs particle
we wouldn't be able to understand why any of the elementary particles
have masses. The more we discover about the Higgs mechanism, the more
we will understand about the dynamics of the early universe." 

As scientists and technicians prepare to send a particle beam all the
way around the LHC, some critics have wondered whether attempts to
reproduce conditions at the beginning of the universe may create a
black hole that could destroy the Earth. 

A CERN team that studied the matter concluded there was no danger of
that happening, and lawsuits filed by opponents have not succeeded in
stopping work on the LHC. 

CERN physicist John Ellis says simply, the skeptics are wrong. "LHC is
only going to reproduce what nature does every second, it has been
doing for billions of years, and all of these astronomical bodies
including the earth and the sun, they are still here. So there really
is no problem." 

Well, let's hope not. The first beam of particles is set to make that
27-kilometer trip around the Large Hadron Collider on Wednesday. 
