A People's Power Party spokesman said Thursday a majority of its
members backed Samak Sundaravej as prime minister. 

On Tuesday, a constitutional court ruled that Mr. Samak must step down
as prime minister because he had violated the national charter by
hosting a television cooking show while in office. 

The ruling, however, did not block his party from re-electing him
prime minister. 

Parliament is to vote on the nomination Friday.

The renomination could enrage anti-government protestors who demand he
resign. Some political analysts and the business community also oppose
Mr. Samak's reappointment, fearing it could lead to violence or
economic damage. 

"Samak is a bad idea," said Sunai Pasuk,a representative in Thailand
for Human Rights Watch. "There are competent people inside the party -
there are other senior politicians who could have been nominated." 

The PPP, which came to office after elections last December, leads a
six-party coalition government. 

The coalition members pledge to stand by the PPP, despite weeks of
anti-government protests, which have brought much of the country's
administration to a standstill. 

The opposition, led the People's Alliance for Democracy, accuse
Mr. Samak and the PPP of acting for former Prime Minister Thaksin
Shinawatra, who was ousted in a coup two years ago. His critics
consider him corrupt and authoritarian. 

Mr. Thaksin fled to Britain in August to avoid trial on corruption
charges. But Thai news media reported extensively Thursday that
Mr. Thaksin had told PPP leaders he wanted Mr. Samak to remain in
office. 

Sunai says if that is true, it would indicate that Mr. Thaksin is
challenging the courts. 

"I could only guess Thaksin might have felt that he and his party have
been hard done by, by the judiciary so this is moment of defiance,"
added Sunai. 

Also Thursday, Thailand's army chief called on the government to
revoke the state of emergency that was imposed last week after clashes
between pro-government and anti-government protestors. 

Opinion polls show a majority of voters favor new elections to end the
political deadlock. 
